# Colophon
Updated: 2025-02-24 15:36:36-05:00

I use the Emacs text editor and its visual-line-mode to edit the Gemtext of this site, and the Lichen Content Management System to render it to static HTML files, using a Forth program run using Gforth, GNU Forth 0.7.3 (NOT the bleeding edge version), and a couple of bash scripts to run the Forth program.

=> https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/ Emacs
=> https://gemini.circumlunar.space/docs/gemtext.gmi Gemtext
=> https://lichen.sensorstation.co/ Lichen
=> http://forth.org/ Forth
=> https://www.gnu.org/software/gforth/ GNU Gforth home page
=> https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gforth/gforth-0.7.3.tar.gz Gforth version 0.7.3
=> https://gforth.org/ Gforth home page, with bleeding edge version

I use Emacs and some home-brewed emacs lisp functions to create new blog posts (and keep the blog and sub-blog indexes up-to-date).  I don't really have really have this separated out for other people to use, so you might have to trawl through my other Emacs Lisp init files for some supporting functions.

=> https://github.com/tkurtbond/microblog/blob/main/emacs/tkb-microblog.el tkb-microblog.el, my homebrewed Emacs Lisp stuf to create new posts and keep the blog and sub-blog indexes up-to-date.
=> https://github.com/tkurtbond/emacs-lisp My Emacs Lisp init files

I recently added Atom feeds generated from the Gemtext indexes of the blog and sub-blog portions of this site.  The program I use to generate them is gmi-html-atom, and is available in the Tools directory of the Git repository I use for this site and microblog.  It is written in CHICKEN Scheme, a very pragmatic and useful Scheme implementation.

=> https://github.com/tkurtbond/microblog/blob/main/Tools/gmi-html-atom.scm gmi-html-atom.scm
=> https://github.com/tkurtbond/microblog/ Microblog Git Repository
=> http://call-cc.org/ CHICKEN Scheme
=> https://www.scheme.org/ The Scheme programming language

And even more recently I've finally made this available as a capsule in geminispace, using the gemini server software Germinal, which is written in Common Lisp.  And I used gemcert to create the SSL certificate and key needed for a gemini server.
=> gemini://consp.org consp.org in geminispace
=> https://git.carcosa.net/jmcbray/germinal Germinal
=> https://lisp-lang.org/ Common Lisp
=> https://tildegit.org/solderpunk/gemcert gemcert

On 2025-02-24 I updated the server running this to Fedora 41 and when I tried to rebuild Germinal, it failed while building package osicat-posix with an error about CFFI failing with a gcc command failing looking for spec file /usr/lib/rpm/redhat/redhat-hardened-cc1, which doesn't exist.  Sigh.

So for now it's running a gemini server written in Go, called just gemini, which was trivial to set up and run.

=> https://github.com/a-h/gemini A server called just "gemini"

## Why?

=> blog/2023/2023-02-19-why-this-blog-site.gmi Why this blog/site?
=> blog/2023/2023-02-19-why-use-scheme-instead-of-forth-for-creating-atom-feeds.gmi Why use Scheme?
